Add KKP 2.22.0 changelog (#11815)
kubermatic/kubermatic: docs/changelogs/CHANGELOG-2.22.md

- Bugfix for KubeVirt infra CSI token creation due to auto-creation disabled in k8s 1.24 ([#10908](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/10908))
- Introduction of KubeVirt default instance types and instance preferences that will replace virtual machine presets ([#11025](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11025))
- Fix wrong quota filtering when `VirtualMachineInstancePreset.spec.cpu` has no quantity but only other fields ([#11046](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11046))
- Add support for ToplogySpreadConstraint for Kubevirt VM ([#11114](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11114))
- Add support for instancetype/preference ([#11182](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11182))
- Update KubeVirt CCM to v0.4.0 and kubevirt.io/api to v0.58.0 ([#11249](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11249))
- Add Images option in KubeVirt DataCenter which supports download and caching of VM images from HTTP source ([#11302](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11302))

> - Add DataVolumeSize field to seed and ImageCloningEnabled to cluster ([#11651](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11651))

Reviewer: Please remove this as the custom images were not delivered.

Author: Removed both lines, thanks for the heads up.

# Kubermatic 2.22

- [v2.22.0](#v2220)

## [v2.22.0](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/releases/tag/v2.22.0)

> Before upgrading, make sure to read the [general upgrade guidelines](https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/v2.22/tutorials-howtos/upgrading/). Consider tweaking `seedControllerManager.maximumParallelReconciles` to ensure usercluster reconciliations will not cause resource exhaustion on seed clusters.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if it should be `usercluster`, `user cluster`, `user cluster's` or `user-cluster`...
```suggestion
Before upgrading, make sure to read the [general upgrade guidelines](https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/v2.22/tutorials-howtos/upgrading/). Consider tweaking `seedControllerManager.maximumParallelReconciles` to ensure user cluster reconciliations will not cause resource exhaustion on seed clusters.
```

Author: "user cluster" is the best out of them I think.

    - [CVE-2022-3162: Unauthorized read of Custom Resources](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-announce/c/oR2PUBiODNA/m/tShPgvpUDQAJ)
    - [CVE-2022-3294: Node address isn't always verified when proxying](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-announce/c/eR0ghAXy2H8/m/sCuQQZlVDQAJ)
- Add support for Kubernetes v1.24.9 ([#11553](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11553))
- Add support for Kubernetes 1.25 ([#11049](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11049))
- Add support for Kubernetes 1.26 ([#11621](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11621))
- Support for Kubernetes 1.22 and 1.23 user clusters has been removed; User clusters remaining on 1.23 will be automatically upgraded with this KKP version ([#11286](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11286), [#11767](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11767))
- Allow Kubernetes version upgrade for clusters with non-amd64 nodes & Canal CNI and IPVS for all Kubernetes versions ([#11765](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11765))

> - Add support for Kubernetes v1.24.10, v1.25.6, and v1.26.1 ([#11859](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11859))

Reviewer 3: Can the last item on this list simply be merged into the others? We have 3 items that each mention support for a new 1.24.x release, usually we only mentioned the most recent support patch release and do not tell users "please update to this one, even though this other one is newer and also supported" ^^

Author: fair point

Author: Updated this section.

#### Supported Versions

- 1.24.8
- 1.24.9
- 1.24.10
- 1.25.4
- 1.25.6
- 1.25.6
- 1.26.1

> ### Highlights

Reviewer 4: Let's also add the new Admin panel and Project panel sidebars (the groupings and toggle feature makes the feature list more structured)

Reviewer 4: - Including MLA within KKP installer could also be highlighted here as well
- Cilium CNI customization and management on Applications base could also be

Author: I've added CNI management via Applications. While MLA integration in the installer is nice, it doesn't change much for day-to-day usage and we're highlighting this change on the upgrade guide already.

- Switch StorageClasses init configuration from annotation to DC ([#11716](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11716))
- Update KubeVirt DC: add additional network policies configuration ([#11659](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11659))
- Update seed and cluster to config StorageClasses from seed ([#11701](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11701))
- Graceful user cluster workload eviction in case of bare-metal infra node draining ([#11588](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11588))
- Split CSI driver deployment between user and infra cluster and remove user cluster CSI access to KubeVirt cluster ([#11370](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11370))
- Fix KubeVirt LB issue (wrong custer-isolation netpol): LB not accessible from outside user-cluster ([#11640](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11640))
- Change CustomNetworkPolicies type (extract name) ([#11666](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11666))
- Fix missing ccmClusterName feature in KubeVirt clusters upgraded to KKP 2.22 ([#11844](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11844))

#### KubeOne Cluster Support

> - Update KubeOne image to v1.5.3 for KubeOne external cluster controller ([#11388](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11388))

Reviewer 3: Still true after https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11914 ?

Author: No, but the final version to be included isnt merged yet.

- Add separate list and details pages for KubeOne clusters ([#5412](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5412))
- Add wizard to import KubeOne clusters ([#5362](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5362))
- Add support to import AWS KubeOne clusters ([#5362](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5362))
- Add support to import Azure KubeOne clusters ([#5488](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5488))
- Add support to import GCP KubeOne clusters ([#5460](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5460))
- Add support to migrate KubeOne cluster container runtime ([#5499](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5499))
- Add support to select preset in credentials step of KubeOne wizard ([#5504](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5504))
- Add support to upgrade KubeOne machine deployment version ([#5561](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/5561))

> #### Web Terminal

Reviewer 4: Only one PR for web terminal?

Author: only one with a changelog entry.

> - Add Web terminal support for user clusters ([#4492](https://github.com/kubermatic/dashboard/pull/4492))

Reviewer 3: `..... This allows users to connect to their clusters from the KKP dashboard, using only their browser.`

Author: Added, thanks!

- Add keepalive-time Konnectivity setting + set keepalive to 1m by default ([#11502](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11502))
- Remove `KonnectivityService` feature gate & make Konnectivity generally available ([#11643](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11643))
- Update Konnectivity version to v0.0.35 ([#11657](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11657))

#### Kubermatic Operator

- The KKP operator can now perform the complete initial setup for new seed clusters. If MinIO/S3-exporter are not required, the KKP installer does not need to be used for setting up new / updating existing seed clusters ([#10795](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/10795))

#### Presets

- Add `.spec.projects` field to `Preset` resources to allow binding Presets to specific projects ([#11100](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11100))

#### OIDC

- Add groups in OIDC kubeconfig ([#11121](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11121))
- Add `OIDCProviderConfiguration` to Seed's spec allowing to configure dedicated OIDC provider for each Seed ([#11668](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11668))

> #### Resource Quotas (EE)

Reviewer 4: We should also add the dyanmic quota feedback on the UI while creating a cluster

Author: Done.

- Add a default project resource quota setting which can be set in KKP's global `KubermaticSettings`. By managing the default quota, for all the projects which do not have a custom quota already set, their ResourceQuota is created/updated/deleted ([#11582](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11582))

> ### Breaking Changes

Reviewer 4: I think we should also add these here:
- Removing Docker
- Deprecation of PodSecurityPolicy

Reviewer 4: Removing the API and adding it to the Private Dashboard repo should also be mentioned as a breaking change as well I think

Author: there is also Removals later down the document. For API I couldn't get a definitive answer on sig-release.

- Remove experimental support for Thanos in the Prometheus Helm chart ([#11424](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11424))
- Cloud provider specific configurations are prohibited from seed-scoped default cluster templates; for existing seed-scoped default cluster templates these settings should be removed manually ([#11472](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11472))
- OperatingSystemProfiles and OperatingSystemConfigs have been moved to the user clusters ([#11710](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11710))
- CustomOperatingSystemProfile CRD is introduced for maintaining custom OSPs at the seed level. For more information [see our docs](https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/v2.22/tutorials-howtos/operating-system-manager/usage/#custom-operatingsystemprofiles) ([#11720](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11720))
    - OSP and OSC resources have been moved to user clusters. KKP will take care of migrating the existing resources
    - Custom OperatingSystemProfiles should now be created for the kind `CustomOperatingSystemProfile` instead of `OperatingSystemProfile` in the seed namespace

> - Action required on applications: helm has been bumped to version 3.11. Due to a [CVE](https://github.com/helm/helm/security/advisories/GHSA-pwcw-6f5g-gxf8) in the previous version, the helm template function [getHostByName](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/function_list/#network-functions has been disabled (function will return an empty string).  If you want to enable this function, you have to set `deployOptions.helm.enableDNS` to true and *verify* this function 'getHostByName' is not being used in a chart to disclose any information you do not want to be passed to DNS servers.(c.f. CVE-2023-25165) ([#11887](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11887))

Reviewer 3: Link is broken. Also there's a double space in this list item.

Author: Fixed, thanks.

> ### API Changes

Reviewer 2: I know that CRDs are technically our API, but maybe we should rename it to `CRD Changes`?

Author: Let's keep it as "API Changes" - e.g. the initial machinedeployment annotation is technically not part of a CRD, so I'd like to keep this section flexible.

- Update OPA integration Gatekeeper to 3.7.2 ([#11188](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11188))
- Update Prometheus to 2.40.2 ([#11423](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11423))
- Update to etcd 3.5.6 to prevent potential data inconsistency issues during online defragmentation ([#11403](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11403))
- New release of telemetry-client v0.3.0 ([#11915](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11915))
- Update supported kubernetes versions for EKS and AKS clusters ([#11892](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11892))

#### Updates (EE)

- Update metering to version 1.0.1 ([#11282](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11282))
    - Add average-used-cpu-millicores to Cluster and Namespace reports
    - Add average-available-cpu-millicores add average-cluster-machines field to Cluster reports
    - Fix a bug that causes wrong values if metric is not continuously present for the aggregation window 

### Miscellaneous

- Update codebase to Kubernetes 1.26 ([#11600](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11600))

> - Update Go to version 1.19.4 ([#11530](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/pull/11530))

Reviewer 3: Soon to be changed.

Author: true, needs to be updated.

Author: Updated.
